Veil — Technical Architecture Document
x402
Algorand TestNet
Autonomous Agents
Hackathon MVP
Version 1.0 — Consolidated Architecture
Merges product/agent design with capability
security model
A R C H I T E C T U R E & T E C H N I C A L D E S I G N
Veil
Payment-Derived
Authorization
for Autonomous Agents
An economic capability layer that lets AI agents pay for access
instead of holding permanent credentials.
Thesis: payment is how an agent acquires authorization. The credential Veil
issues is not a receipt, not a login token, and not an API key — it is a
scoped, expiring, revocable capability, and Algorand's transaction and
smart-contract primitives enforce that capability directly, without a
centralized session store deciding access on every call. 
Veil
Architecture & Technical Design | Page 1 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
Table of Contents
A single, consolidated architecture — product and agent design merged with the on-chain capability security
model.
1. Executive Summary
2. Problem: Why Existing x402
APIs Are Not Enough
3. The Veil Solution
4. Real-World Use Case
5. Core Architecture
6. Component Responsibilities
7. AI Agent Architecture
8. x402 Payment Architecture
9. Algorand Architecture
10. Capability Data Model
11. Atomic Payment + Capability
Issuance
12. Disposable Address Model
13. Nonce + Signature Verification
14. Resource Server Authorization
15. Revocation, Expiry & Quota
16. Database & Audit Architecture
17. Admin Architecture
18. Security & Threat Model
19. Privacy Model
20. End-to-End Sequence
21. Frontend / Product Architecture
22. Veil vs. a Basic x402 API
23. MVP Scope & Stretch Goals
24. Implementation Roadmap
25. Deployment Architecture
26. Demo Script
27. Architecture Decisions &
Tradeoffs
28. Final Definition of Done
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 2 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
1 Executive Summary
Veil is an authorization layer for autonomous AI agents. It answers a question that neither payments
infrastructure nor traditional identity systems answer well: once an agent has paid for something,
exactly what is it allowed to do, for how long, and how many times?
Two protocols do the heavy lifting, and Veil deliberately keeps them separate rather than blurring them together:
Layer
Question it answers
x402
Has the agent paid for this resource? x402 is the payment mechanism — the HTTP-native "402
Payment Required" handshake that lets an agent settle a machine-payable price before
proceeding.
Veil capability
Exactly what is this agent allowed to do, now that it has paid? Veil converts a settled payment into
a narrowly scoped, quota-limited, time-boxed, revocable grant.
Algorand
Where is that grant enforced? Algorand's box storage holds the authoritative capability record; its
atomic transaction groups guarantee payment and issuance rise or fall together; its deterministic
rounds give expiry an unambiguous, oracle-free clock.
x402 is not the product. x402 is the payment rail. The product is the authorization model that payment triggers:
a disposable-address-bound, nonce-proven, on-chain-enforced capability that replaces the long-lived API key an
agent would otherwise need. Everywhere in this document, Veil is described as a payment-derived authorization
layer, never as "an API with x402 bolted on."
This document merges two prior working drafts of the Veil architecture into one coherent design. The product
vision, agent workflow, service decomposition, and frontend/admin experience come from the original proposal.
The precise blockchain mechanics — atomic issuance, disposable addresses funded by the issuer (not the
agent), nonce/signature proof, replay protection, and an honestly-scoped privacy and threat model — come from
the follow-up security review. Where the two disagreed, this document says so explicitly in Section 27 rather
than silently picking a side.
WHY THIS MATTERS
An AI agent that can autonomously discover and pay for resources is also an agent that, under the old model,
would need a standing API key to use what it paid for. Standing keys are broad, long-lived, and expensive to
revoke cleanly. Veil's alternative is a credential that is born scoped to one resource, one action, a fixed quota,
and a short expiry — and that can be killed instantly and unambiguously by a single on-chain write. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 3 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
2 Problem: Why Existing x402 APIs Are Not Enough
x402 solves machine-to-machine payment. It does not solve machine-to-machine authorization.
Treating the two as the same problem is the mistake Veil is built to correct.
A typical "x402-protected API" today looks like this: an agent calls an endpoint, receives an HTTP 402 with a
price, pays, and receives data back. That flow is complete as a payment flow, but it is silent on everything that
matters for access control:
What exactly did the payment authorize — one call, unlimited calls, read-only, write access?
How long does that authorization last?
Who — or what — is allowed to present that authorization? Can it be copied and reused by something else?
Can the provider revoke access if the agent turns out to be misbehaving, without waiting for a natural expiry?
Is there any proof, beyond a bare credential string, that the party presenting the credential is the one who
actually paid for it?
Most "pay-per-call" APIs answer none of these questions, because they conflate payment with authorization:
paying is getting access, full stop, usually via a static key or token minted once and valid indefinitely. That is a
reasonable simplification for a human clicking "subscribe." It is a poor fit for an autonomous agent that:
may be compromised, misconfigured, or simply buggy, and should not be able to do unbounded damage with
a credential it acquired for one narrow task;
may run unattended for long periods, so a credential that never expires is a standing liability rather than a
convenience;
increasingly needs different scopes for different actions (reading a price feed is not the same risk as
submitting a write to a ledger), which a single static key cannot express.
THE GAP VEIL FILLS
x402 tells you a payment cleared. It does not tell you what the payer is now allowed to do, for how long, or how
many times — and it gives the resource server no cryptographic way to confirm that the entity presenting a
credential is the entity that paid for it. Veil is the missing authorization layer that turns a cleared payment into a
precisely bounded grant. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 4 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
3 The Veil Solution
Veil sits between the payment event and the resource access decision, and converts the former into a
scoped grant that governs the latter.
AI Agent
  ↓ needs a paid resource
Resource responds with HTTP 402
  ↓ agent pays through x402
ALGO payment settles on Algorand
  ↓
Veil issues a narrowly scoped capability (atomically, with the payment)
  ↓
Agent proves possession of the capability (nonce + signature)
  ↓
Resource server validates the capability against on-chain state
  ↓
Agent gets access 
Three properties define the solution, and each is load-bearing rather than cosmetic:
Property
What it means in Veil
Scoped
A capability names exactly one resource and exactly one action (READ, WRITE, COMPUTE,
QUERY). It does not imply access to anything else the same provider, or any other provider,
exposes.
Bounded
Every capability carries a quota (maximum uses) and an expiry expressed as an Algorand
round number, so both "how many times" and "until when" are enforced without trusting a
clock or a session store.
Revocable
A provider can invalidate a capability with a single authoritative write to on-chain state. The
very next validation attempt sees the revoked flag and rejects the request — there is no
propagation delay to a cache or a second system of record.
Crucially, the authorization decision itself does not live in a piece of application code that a compromised server
operator could quietly override. The capability record lives in an Algorand application's box storage, and
payment-to-issuance is enforced atomically inside a transaction group rather than by an off-chain service's say-
so (see Sections 9 and 11). The Veil issuer is a convenience layer — key generation, funding, request assembly
— not the trust root for the authorization decision.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 5 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
4 Real-World Use Case
AI Procurement Agent
A user asks an autonomous procurement agent: "Find the cheapest supplier for 500 units of this
component." Answering well requires a premium supplier-pricing feed that the agent does not have
standing access to.
User → AI Procurement Agent
  ↓ discover_resource()
Premium Supplier Pricing API
  ↓ 402 Payment Required
Agent pays ALGO through x402
  ↓ atomic payment + capability issuance
READ capability — 5 requests, 30-minute expiry
  ↓ agent signs a freshly issued nonce
Resource server verifies signature + capability state
  ↓
200 OK — supplier pricing data returned 
The demo does not stop at the happy path. Two follow-on moments make the authorization model concrete
rather than theoretical:
SCOPE ENFORCEMENT
The same agent attempts a WRITE against the
pricing endpoint using its READ -scoped capability.
The resource server rejects it with 403 — not
because the credential is invalid, but because the
action does not match what was authorized. 
REVOCATION
An administrator revokes the capability from the
dashboard mid-session. The agent's next request
— otherwise identical, well within quota and expiry
— is rejected with 403 because the authoritative
on-chain record now shows revoked = true . 
Why this matters: the agent never held a permanent API key to the supplier-pricing service. It held a purpose-
built, time-boxed grant that existed because — and only as long as — a specific payment authorized it. That is
the difference between "paying to unlock an API" and an economic authorization layer.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 6 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
5 Core Architecture
Diagram 1 — high-level system architecture. The frontend, agent, and admin surfaces are all
consumers of state that ultimately comes from the resource server and Algorand; none of them are
trusted to assert their own authorization.
Diagram 1. Solid arrows follow the request/issuance path; dashed grey arrows are logging/state writes to Supabase; the dashed
red arrow is the admin revoke path into Algorand.
Note what this diagram deliberately does not show: the frontend or the database asserting that a capability is
valid. Both are consumers of state; the resource server's validation logic and Algorand's box storage are the only
parties that can say "yes, this is authorized."
User
Frontend (Next.js)
Dashboard · Chat · Capabilities · Admin
AI Agent Orchestrator
LLM reasoning + controlled tool calls
x402 Layer + Resource Server
402 handshake · capability validation
nonce challenge · scope/expiry/quota checks
Veil Issuer / Capability Service
disposable address funding · atomic group
assembly · nonce/signature service
Algorand TestNet
Capability app · box storage · indexer
badge ASA (optional) · treasury account
Protected Resource API
e.g. /api/premium-data
Supabase / Postgres
logs · payments · audit trail (not authority)
Admin Dashboard
revoke · view capability & audit state
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 7 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
6 Component Responsibilities
Every service below has one job. Nothing is collapsed into a vague "backend" — each responsibility
maps to code that a specific team member owns.
Component
Responsibilities
Agent Orchestrator
LLM reasoning and tool selection; resource discovery; initiating requests; driving the payment
workflow; acquiring capabilities; accessing protected resources; summarizing results for the
user. The LLM chooses which tool to call — it never decides whether a payment or a capability
is valid.
x402 Layer
Issuing HTTP 402 responses with payment requirements; verifying and settling payments;
integrating with the Algorand-compatible x402 packages ( @x402/core , @x402/avm , 
@x402/fetch ) rather than a hand-rolled protocol.
Veil Issuer /
Capability Service
Generating a disposable address per capability, funded from the issuer's own operational
reserve; assembling the atomic transaction group (payment + capability write + optional badge
transfer); recording capability metadata; maintaining the private payer ↔ disposable-address
mapping.
Nonce / Signature
Service
Issuing a fresh, single-use nonce per access attempt; verifying that the presented signature
was produced by the capability's bound disposable-address key; rejecting replays of a
previously used nonce/signature pair.
Resource Server
Accepting a credential ID and a signed nonce; reading authoritative capability state via the
Algorand indexer; checking resource scope, action, expiry round, revocation flag, and quota, in
that order; returning 200 or 403 with a reason.
Algorand Service
TestNet connectivity; transaction construction and atomic grouping; application calls against the
capability contract; box-state reads and writes; indexer queries used by the resource server.
Database
(Supabase/
Postgres)
Application-level records only: request logs, payment logs, audit trail, agent activity, and the
private issuer-side payer mapping. Not the source of truth for whether a capability is currently
valid — that answer always comes from Algorand box state.
Admin Service /
Dashboard
Displaying active capabilities and their state; issuing the revoke action, which is itself an
authenticated app call against the capability contract, not a database flag flip.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 8 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
7 AI Agent Architecture
The agent is a real, tool-using autonomous workflow — not a chat wrapper around a single API call.
The LLM is the reasoning and orchestration layer; every action with real-world consequence goes
through a deterministic, non-LLM-controlled tool.
Tool
What it does
discover_resource()
Identifies which registered resource can satisfy the current task and what it costs.
request_resource()
Issues the initial HTTP request against the protected endpoint.
pay_x402()
Parses the 402 payment requirement and drives the x402 payment flow to
settlement on Algorand.
obtain_capability()
Confirms the atomic payment + capability issuance completed and retrieves the
resulting credential ID and disposable-address key material.
access_with_capability()
Requests a nonce, signs it with the disposable address's key, and presents the
signed nonce plus credential ID to the resource server.
summarize_result()
Passes the returned data back to the LLM for natural-language summarization for
the user.
DESIGN PRINCIPLE
Payment verification and capability validation are deterministic backend and on-chain operations. The LLM
never adjudicates "did this payment clear" or "is this capability still valid" — those checks happen in the x402
layer, the capability contract, and the resource server, none of which take instructions from model output. 
For the hackathon build, the agent is deliberately constrained to a known resource set and a fixed payment
ceiling per task. That keeps the demo predictable and removes the failure mode of an LLM deciding, on its own,
to spend more than intended.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 9 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
8 x402 Payment Architecture
Diagram 2 — the payment handshake. x402 v2 uses standardized headers ( PAYMENT-REQUIRED , 
PAYMENT-SIGNATURE , PAYMENT-RESPONSE ); the current official Algorand integration path uses the 
@x402/core , @x402/avm , and @x402/fetch packages against a facilitator on Algorand TestNet.
Diagram 2. The 402 → pay → retry pattern, with step 4 expanded in Section 11 into a full atomic transaction group.
Two things are worth stating plainly. First, x402 alone stops at step 4's payment settlement — the capability
issuance is Veil's addition, and it is deliberately fused into the same atomic step rather than treated as a separate
follow-up call (see Section 11). Second, this document does not describe Veil as replacing x402; x402 remains
the payment protocol, and Veil extends its result into scoped, temporary authorization.
Agent
Resource API
1. GET /resource
2. 402 Payment Required (price + scope)
3. Signed ALGO payment via x402 facilitator
4. Payment settled + capability issued (atomic)
5. Retry with capability + signed nonce →200 OK
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 10 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
9 Algorand Architecture
Algorand is used precisely, for what its primitives actually guarantee — not cited as a generic
"blockchain = trust" argument.
Feature
How Veil uses it
What it does not guarantee
Atomic transaction
groups
Payment, optional badge transfer, and capability box
write commit as a single unit (up to 16 transactions
grouped).
Does not protect against a malicious
resource server after issuance —
only protects the mint step itself.
Box storage
Holds the capability record (scope, quota, expiry,
revoked flag) at low, refundable cost.
Box reads still require an indexer or
node query — this is not free at
arbitrary request volume, which is
why quota is cached rather than
checked on-chain per call (Section
15).
Default-frozen ASA
+ clawback
The optional badge ASA is created default_frozen
= true ; the issuer holds clawback and freeze
authority, moving the asset into the disposable account
at mint and back out at revocation. This makes the
badge soulbound and instantly revocable using one
mechanism.
Does not prevent the private key
itself being stolen — soulboundness
stops transfer of the token, not
misuse by whoever already holds the
signing key.
Deterministic round
numbers
Expiry is expressed as current_round <
expiry_round . Every validator agrees on the current
round — no clock drift, no timezone ambiguity, no
oracle needed.
Round times vary slightly; this is not
a mechanism for expiring something
at an exact wall-clock second, only
"within one round's tolerance."
Low fees / fast
finality
Makes atomic, per-grant minting practical at the
frequency an autonomous agent might request
resources.
Does not make per-request, on-chain
quota decrementing viable at high
call volume — that remains a
deliberate MVP cut (Section 15).
The Algorand application and its box storage are the authoritative source of truth for capability state.
Supabase is not — it holds operational and audit records, never the deciding answer to "is this capability
currently valid."
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 11 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
10 Capability Data Model
A capability is a record, not a token balance and not a receipt. It is stored in the capability application's
box storage, keyed by credential ID.
Capability {
  credential_id: bytes32   // unique identifier for this grant
  resource_id:   bytes32   // exactly which resource this authorizes
  action:        uint8     // READ | WRITE | COMPUTE | QUERY
  quota:         uint64    // remaining permitted uses
  expiry_round:  uint64    // Algorand round number, not wall-clock time
  holder:        address   // the disposable address bound to this grant
  revoked:       bool      // provider-set invalidation flag
}
Field
Meaning
Scope
( resource_id )
What resource this grant applies to — never implicitly extends to any other endpoint or provider.
Action
What operation is authorized: READ , WRITE , COMPUTE , or QUERY . A capability minted for
one action is rejected outright if presented against another.
Quota
How many uses remain under this grant. Decremented per successful access (subject to the
caching model in Section 15).
Expiry
The Algorand round after which the capability is no longer valid, regardless of remaining quota.
Holder
The disposable address that must produce a valid signature to exercise this capability — see
Section 12.
Revocation
A boolean the provider can set via an authenticated app call at any time before expiry,
independent of quota or scope.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 12 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
11 Atomic Payment + Capability Issuance
Diagram 3 — payment and capability issuance happen inside one Algorand atomic transaction group.
This is the mechanism that eliminates "payment succeeded but capability issuance failed" as a
possible failure mode — it is not merely a nice-to-have, it removes an entire class of bugs and
disputes by construction.
Diagram 3. The badge transfer (step 3) is explicitly optional and can be cut under time pressure without weakening the core
guarantee — see Section 23.
Replay protection
The capability contract maintains a consumed-payment set in box storage. Before writing a new capability, the
application call checks the incoming payment transaction's ID against that set. A given payment transaction can
mint exactly one capability; replaying the same payment ID a second time is rejected at the contract level, not
merely discouraged by convention.
Edge case
Resolution
Payment succeeds, issuance fails
Impossible by construction — both are in the same atomic group.
Same payment transaction reused
Rejected via the consumed-payment set check inside the application call.
Expired credential still presented
Checked against the current round at validation time, never against a cached
client-side value.
ATOMIC TRANSACTION GROUP — commits or fails together
1. Payment
Agent's disposable/funding path →Veil treasury (ALGO)
2. Application Call
Create capability / write the capability box (checks consumed-payment set first)
3. Optional — Badge ASA Transfer
Clawback-based transfer of the default-frozen badge to the disposable holder
Either all three steps succeed, or none of them do.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 13 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
12 Disposable Address Model
Each capability is bound to a fresh, single-use Algorand address rather than the agent's or the payer's
permanent wallet.
Agent requests access
  ↓
Veil issuer generates a disposable keypair
  ↓ funded from the issuer's own operational reserve
Capability holder = disposable address
  ↓
Credential ID + disposable private key handed to the agent 
Why a disposable address, rather than the agent's own identity, holds each grant:
Capability isolation — compromising one capability's key does not expose any other capability the same
agent holds.
Reduced credential reuse — there is nothing long-lived to leak; a stolen disposable key is only useful until
that capability's expiry or revocation.
Limited blast radius — a stolen or misused disposable address can only exercise the one scope, quota,
and action it was minted for.
Improved privacy — the resource server sees the disposable address, not a persistent identity that would
let it correlate requests across sessions.
Stronger holder binding — the nonce/signature proof in Section 13 only means something because the
holder address is fresh and single-purpose, not a shared identity used everywhere.
CORRECTION CARRIED FORWARD FROM THE SECURITY REVIEW
The privacy benefit above only holds if the issuer funds each disposable address's minimum balance from its
own operational reserve — not if the agent funds it from its own wallet. Whoever funds an address's minimum
balance is visible on-chain and trivially correlates back to that funder. If the agent funded its own "disposable"
addresses, a chain-analysis tool could link every one of them straight back to the same source wallet, which
would quietly defeat the entire privacy rationale. Veil's issuer therefore always funds disposable addresses itself;
this is stated explicitly rather than left as an unstated assumption. 
CUSTODY NOTE — AN INTENTIONAL MVP SCOPING CHOICE, NOT A HIDDEN GAP
For the hackathon build, the issuer generates the disposable keypair on the agent's behalf and hands the
private key back once the capability is minted (custodial-at-birth, handed off immediately). Full non-custodial,
client-side key generation is possible and is listed as a stretch item; it adds complexity without changing the core
authorization novelty this project demonstrates, so it is named here rather than silently deferred. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 14 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
13 Nonce + Signature Verification
Diagram 4 — proof of possession. A bare credential ID is not sufficient proof of authorization, because
anything that observes it (a server log, a network trace) could try to replay it. The resource server
therefore requires a signature over a nonce it issues fresh for every access attempt.
Diagram 4. Order of checks matters for good error messages: scope, then action, then expiry, then revocation, then quota —
each failure mode returns a distinguishable reason, which is itself a useful demo detail.
The signature step is not optional. Without it, anyone who observes a credential ID — in a log line, a network
capture, a proxy — could present it as their own and be granted access, since a bare identifier carries no proof of
who is presenting it. Requiring a fresh signature per attempt closes that gap: a captured old signature is
worthless against a newly issued nonce.
Agent
Resource Server
Algorand
1. present credential ID
2. fresh nonce
3. nonce signed by disposable-address key
4. read capability (via indexer)
5. capability box state
verify signature
check scope + action
check expiry + revocation
check quota
6. 200 OK / 403 Forbidden
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 15 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
14 Resource Server Authorization
The resource server never treats its own database as authoritative for whether a request is allowed. Its
validation path always terminates at Algorand's box state, reached through the indexer.
Resource Server
  ↓
Algorand Indexer
  ↓
Capability App / Box State (authoritative) 
Validation, step by step:
Receive the credential ID and the signed nonce from the agent.
Look up the capability's box state via the indexer.
Verify the signature was produced by the address recorded as holder .
Check resource_id matches the endpoint being called.
Check action matches the operation being requested.
Check current_round < expiry_round .
Check revoked == false .
Check quota > 0 .
If every check passes: serve the request and account for the used quota unit (see Section 15 for the caching
model). If any check fails: return 403 with the specific failing reason.
Returning a specific rejection reason — wrong scope, expired, revoked, or quota exhausted, rather than a single
opaque 403 — demonstrates that enforcement is fine-grained rather than binary, and is worth surfacing in both
logs and the demo UI.
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 16 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
15 Revocation, Expiry & Quota
Revocation — the core "wow moment"
Capability ACTIVE
  ↓
Agent accesses resource — 200 OK
  ↓
Admin clicks REVOKE (authenticated app call)
  ↓
Capability's revoked flag flips on Algorand
  ↓
Agent attempts access again — same request, no changes
  ↓
403 Forbidden 
Because both the resource server and the admin action read and write the same on-chain box, there is no
window in which two different validators could disagree about whether a capability is currently revoked.
Revocation is a single authoritative write, not an eventually-consistent cache update.
Expiry
Expiry uses an Algorand round number, not a wall-clock timestamp. Every validator agrees on the current round,
which removes clock-drift, timezone ambiguity, and any need for an external time oracle. The tradeoff, stated
honestly: round-based expiry is precise to within roughly a round's duration, not to the exact second —
acceptable for authorization windows measured in minutes, not for use cases needing sub-second precision.
Quota — deliberately not enforced on-chain per request
Algorand → initial capability/quota state
  ↓
Resource Server → local/cached quota enforcement
  ↓
Periodic on-chain reconciliation (if/when required) 
Calling the capability contract to decrement a counter on every single API call would reintroduce exactly the
latency and fee overhead the design is trying to avoid, for a check that mostly matters in aggregate rather than
per-call. The MVP therefore treats quota as checked-and-cached by the resource server between periodic on-
chain reconciliations. Per-request, on-chain quota decrementing is explicitly a stretch/future feature, not
something this MVP claims to solve — see Section 23.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 17 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
16 Database & Audit Architecture
Supabase/Postgres provides application-level persistence for everything that is either privacy-sensitive
(shouldn't be on a public ledger) or purely operational (doesn't need consensus).
Table
Key fields
agents
agent_id, name, wallet_address, status, created_at
resources
resource_id, name, endpoint, price, currency, allowed_actions, description
capabilities
credential_id, resource_id, action, quota, expiry_round, holder_address, revoked,
created_at — a mirrored, queryable view of on-chain state, for UI/indexing
convenience
payments
payment_id, agent_id, amount, currency, resource_id, tx_id, status, timestamp
requests
request_id, agent_id, resource_id, credential_id, status_code, result, timestamp
nonces
nonce, credential_id, issued_at, used, expires_at
blockchain_transactions
tx_id, type, credential_id, round, status, timestamp
audit_logs
event_id, actor, event_type, metadata, timestamp
payer_mapping
PRIVATE
payer_identity, disposable_address, capability_credential_id, created_at — issuer-
only, used solely for dispute resolution, abuse investigation, or compliance; never
exposed to the resource server during normal operation
NON-NEGOTIABLE DISTINCTION
The database mirrors and logs; Algorand box state decides. If the two ever disagree — say, a revoke transaction
confirmed on-chain but the mirrored row failed to update — the resource server's answer must still come from
the chain, not from Supabase. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 18 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
17 Admin Architecture
The admin surface displays authoritative state and issues one meaningful write: revocation.
Active capabilities view — credential ID, holder (disposable address), resource, action, quota remaining,
expiry round, current status, all read from indexer/box state rather than from cached database values
wherever the two could plausibly diverge.
Revoke action — a single button that submits an authenticated application call flipping revoked = true
on the target capability's box. This is the same contract-level mechanism the threat model in Section 18 relies
on, not a soft "hide from UI" toggle.
Payment / activity / audit logs — sourced from Supabase, useful for investigation and demo narration,
explicitly not used to make authorization decisions.
• 
• 
• 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 19 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
18 Security & Threat Model
The correct claim for Veil is blast-radius reduction, not "unhackable." If a credential or agent is
compromised, the damage it can do is narrow, temporary, quota-limited, and revocable — never
unlimited.
Threat
Mitigation
Credential theft
(disposable key leaked)
Short expiry, narrow scope, and quota limit blast radius; a stolen credential is resource-
specific and cannot be reused elsewhere.
Replay of a credential
presentation
Fresh nonce per request; the agent must produce a new signature every time, so a
captured old signature does not work against a new challenge.
Credential transfer to a
third party
Holder binding checked at validation time; the optional default-frozen badge ASA
additionally prevents the holder from ever transferring the badge itself.
Payment replay (reusing a
payment to mint twice)
The application call checks the payment transaction's ID against a consumed-payment set
in box storage before writing a new capability.
Compromised agent
Least-privilege scoping and short expiry mean a compromised agent can do bounded
damage within one capability's scope, not everything the agent could ever access.
Compromised issuer
The issuer cannot mint a capability without a valid, atomically-grouped payment — the
authorization decision lives in contract logic, not the issuer's say-so. Named, honest
limitations remain: the issuer can still refuse service (denial of service) or leak its private
payer-mapping store — both are called out here rather than hidden.
Expiry race
Round-based expiry means every validator agrees on "expired" at the same instant — no
ambiguous window.
Revocation race
Revocation is a single atomic app call against shared authoritative on-chain state; there is
no window where two resource servers could see different revocation states.
Disposable-address
correlation
The issuer funds each disposable address from its own reserve, breaking the trivial
funding-source link. Funding-pattern correlation across many grants over time is explicitly
out of scope for this MVP (Section 19).
Malicious/compromised
resource server
The resource server only ever learns the disposable address and the capability's scope —
never the real payer's identity — which limits what it can learn even if it logs everything.
This does not protect the agent from a resource server that simply refuses or misuses the
data it is entitled to return.
Trust boundaries
Diagram 6 — who can trust whom, and with what.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 20 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
Diagram 6. Blockchain does not solve every threat named above — it removes ambiguity about revocation, expiry, and payment-
to-issuance atomicity specifically, and no further.
Agent (untrusted for decisions)
• Can hold a disposable key and sign nonces
• Cannot forge signatures for a key it doesn't hold
• Cannot expand its own scope, quota, or expiry
• LLM output never reaches payment/authz logic directly
Resource Server (semi-trusted)
• Sees disposable address + scope only
• Never sees the real payer's identity
• Cannot alter box state, only read it
• Can still misuse or withhold data it is asked to return
Veil Issuer (trust-reduced, not trust-free)
• Generates keys and funds disposable addresses
• Cannot mint a capability without a valid atomic payment
• Holds the private payer-mapping store — a real, named risk
• Can deny service, but cannot fabricate authorization
Algorand + Admin (authoritative)
• Box state is the single source of authorization truth
• Every validator agrees on round-based expiry
• Admin revoke is one authoritative, atomic write
• Database mirrors this; it does not decide anything
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 21 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
19 Privacy Model
Three conditions all have to hold for the disposable-address privacy claim to be meaningful, not
merely cosmetic.
A fresh disposable address is minted per grant.
The issuer funds the address, not the agent — this is the mechanism that actually breaks the on-chain
funding correlation. If the agent funded its own disposable addresses, a chain-analysis tool could trivially link
every "anonymous" grant back to the same source wallet.
The payer ↔ disposable-address mapping lives only in the issuer's private store, used solely for dispute
resolution, abuse investigation, or compliance — never exposed to the resource server during normal
operation.
HONEST SCOPING STATEMENT
Sender-side unlinkability is explicitly out of scope for this MVP. If an agent repeatedly tops up the issuer's
account from the same funding source across many requests, a sophisticated observer performing timing or
amount correlation could still link those grants together. Veil's actual guarantee is narrower and still meaningful:
the resource server, by design, never sees a persistent identity across requests. That is not a guarantee against
a global chain observer correlating funding patterns over time — and this document says so rather than
overpromising "anonymity." 
If issuer-funded disposable addresses reduce anything, the precise language is: they reduce straightforward
address correlation between a payer's main identity and the capability address a resource server sees. That is
a deliberately narrower and more defensible claim than "perfect anonymity," and it is the one this architecture
makes.
1. 
2. 
3. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 22 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
20 End-to-End Sequence
Diagram 5 — the full Veil flow, start to finish, matching what a live demo actually executes.
Diagram 5. Every arrow corresponds to a concrete tool call or contract interaction already defined in Sections 7, 8, 11, 13, and 15
— nothing in this sequence is aspirational.
discover
resource
request
402
pay
(x402/ALGO)
capability
(atomic issue)
disposable addr
nonce
+ signature
access
200 OK
revoke
→retry
→403
discover →request →402 →pay →capability →nonce →access →revoke →403
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 23 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
21 Frontend / Product Architecture
The browser is a viewer of backend- and blockchain-derived state. It never fabricates credentials,
transaction IDs, or authorization decisions.
Landing Page
Hero explaining the payment → authorization thesis
Flow diagram (Diagram 5, simplified)
Security section summarizing Section 18
Team
Footer
Agent Dashboard
Dashboard overview
AI Agent chat / task interface
Capabilities list and detail view
Payments history
Resources catalog
Activity / request timeline
Capability detail view
Shows: credential ID, holder (disposable address), transaction ID, resource, action, quota, expiry, status, and a
revoke control (admin-only) — all values sourced from the resource server / indexer, not generated client-side.
Admin Dashboard
Active capabilities, with live status
Revoke action per capability
Payment / activity / audit logs
Route
Purpose
Priority
/
Landing page — explain Veil in one screen
P1
/agent
Agent dashboard
P1
/agent/chat
Natural-language agent interaction
P1
/capabilities
Capability list
P1
/
capabilities/:id
Capability details + revoke
P1
/admin
Admin overview and revoke
P1
/payments
x402 payment history
P2
/resources
Protected resource catalog/config
P2
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 24 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
/activity
Request/event timeline
P2
/api/premium-
data
The actual x402-protected endpoint
P0
REMOVE ALL MOCK/FAKE ARCHITECTURE BEFORE JUDGING
The production/demo build must not use: Math.random credential IDs, fake transaction IDs, simulated
payments, localStorage as authentication, hardcoded LLM responses, or fake 402 responses. Wherever the
current prototype still contains a simulation, this document's authors must identify exactly where it transitions to
real infrastructure before the demo is treated as final. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 25 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
22 Veil vs. a Basic x402 API
This comparison is the core hackathon positioning argument: Veil is not "an API with payments," it is
an economic authorization layer built on top of payment.
Basic x402 API
Veil
Agent pays for API
Agent pays for API
402 payment
402 payment
Receives data
Receives data
Usually broad/static credentials
Temporary, purpose-built capability
Payment and authorization treated as the
same event
Payment atomically triggers capability issuance — related but distinct
steps
No granular scope
Resource + action scope
No mandatory expiry
Round-based expiry, enforced on-chain
No mandatory quota
Quota, enforced with periodic reconciliation
No capability holder proof
Disposable-address holder binding
No nonce proof
Fresh nonce + signature per access attempt
No capability revocation model
Single authoritative on-chain revocation
Category: a simple paid API
Category: an economic authorization layer
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 26 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
23 MVP Scope & Stretch Goals
Must-have / MVP
One x402-protected resource
Algorand TestNet, real ALGO settlement
Real HTTP 402 (no simulated payments)
Atomic payment + capability issuance
Algorand app + box-storage capability record
Disposable capability address, issuer-funded
Nonce + signature proof of possession
Resource/action scope enforcement
Expiry (round-based)
Quota (cached, resource-server enforced)
Revocation, checked against authoritative on-chain state
200 on a valid capability, 403 with a reason on invalid/expired/revoked/quota-exhausted
AI agent completing the full workflow autonomously
Public deployment with a working, judge-runnable demo
Stretch
Default-frozen badge ASA (visual "watch it vanish on revoke" moment)
A second capability type ( WRITE ) and a second agent, to demonstrate scope enforcement beyond binary
access
Multiple resources, multiple agents
Advanced quota reconciliation and per-request on-chain decrementing
Stronger privacy mechanisms (sender-side unlinkability)
Non-custodial, client-side disposable key generation
More sophisticated admin analytics
EXPLICITLY AVOIDED, ON PURPOSE
Per-request on-chain quota transactions, full production wallet/key management, elaborate frontend animation,
a native mobile app, and a multi-provider payment marketplace are all out of scope for this MVP. None of them
are required to demonstrate the core thesis, and each adds real implementation risk against a fixed hackathon
deadline. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 27 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
24 Implementation Roadmap
Module sequence
Module
Focus
Key deliverables
1
Algorand + x402 foundation
Funded TestNet account, Algorand SDK/AlgoKit tooling, x402 packages
installed, official Algorand x402 sample proven end-to-end (402 →
payment → 200)
2
Real protected resource
/api/premium-data returning a genuine HTTP 402, integrated with
x402, settling real ALGO on TestNet
3
Capability contract
Algorand app with box state, capability schema, create/read/revoke
methods, consumed-payment protection
4
Atomic issuance
Payment + capability creation + optional badge, bundled into one atomic
transaction group; disposable address generation and issuer funding
5
Capability verification
Nonce issuance, signature verification, holder/resource/action/expiry/
quota/revocation checks in the resource server
6
AI agent
LLM integration, tool definitions from Section 7, resource discovery,
payment orchestration, capability acquisition and use
7
Application integration
Frontend, admin, activity, payments, resources — all wired to real
blockchain and backend data
8
Database + audit
Supabase schema, logging, audit trail, private issuer-side payer
mapping
9
Deployment
Vercel (or equivalent) for the web app, backend service deployment,
Algorand TestNet configuration, secrets management, public demo URL
10
End-to-end demo
User request → discover → 402 → pay → atomic issuance → capability
shown → nonce/signature → 200 → admin revoke → retry → 403
Calendar mapping (3-person team, one-week sprint)
Day
Focus
Mon 17 Aug
Architecture freeze, environment setup, repo/skeleton, Supabase schema, basic responsive layout
— Module 1 start.
Tue 18 Aug
/api/premium-data live with a real 402; Algorand x402 TestNet payment confirmed; first plain
client pays and receives data — Modules 1–2 complete.
Wed 19 Aug
Capability contract implemented and deployed to TestNet; create/read/revoke proven via an
integration script without the UI — Module 3 complete.
Thu 20 Aug
LLM connected with controlled tools; agent completes discover → 402 → pay → capability → retry
end-to-end in the terminal — Modules 4–6 complete.
Fri 21 Aug
UI polish and feature freeze: capability cards, payment timeline, admin revoke, activity log, public
deployment — Modules 7–9 complete.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 28 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
Sat 22 Aug
No new features. Clean-install test, cross-browser check, pitch rehearsal, backup recording, fallback
plan for TestNet/facilitator downtime.
Sun 23 Aug
Presentation day — run the exact tested flow; no architecture or feature changes on demo day.
CALENDAR FLAG
This 7-day sprint plan is dated Monday 17 Aug through Sunday 23 Aug. If this document is being read on or
after the "Sat 22 Aug — freeze" milestone, treat every date above as a schedule reference for sequencing, not a
live countdown — confirm against the team's actual current build status before relying on it as a plan. 
Work split (reference team of three)
Owner
Main responsibility
Deliverables
Agent / x402 engineer
AI agent + payment flow
LLM integration, tool definitions, 402 handling, x402 client,
agent retry logic, chat UI integration
Algorand / contract
engineer
Blockchain capability layer
Algorand TypeScript contract, box schema, create/read/
revoke, TestNet deployment, transaction verification
Web / resource-server
engineer
Website + protected API
Next.js UI, dashboard, capability cards, admin revoke UI, /
api/premium-data , database, integration
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 29 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
25 Deployment Architecture
Layer
Technology
Why
Runtime
Node.js
One language/runtime across agent, API, and
blockchain integration
Language
TypeScript
Type safety; pairs naturally with Algorand's
TypeScript tooling
Frontend
Next.js + React + Tailwind CSS
Responsive mobile/desktop web app
Backend
Next.js API routes or Hono/Express
Fast API development, straightforward x402
integration
x402
@x402/core , @x402/avm , 
@x402/fetch
Official Algorand-compatible x402 path
Blockchain
AlgoKit + Algorand TypeScript / AlgoKit
Utils
Smart contracts, box/app management,
transactions, testing
Database
Supabase (PostgreSQL)
Simple hosted relational store for application-level
records
AI
A pre-built LLM API (e.g. Claude, GPT,
or similar)
Reasoning layer only — no model training required
Testing
Vitest + integration scripts
Fast tests for capability and API flow
Deployment
Vercel (frontend) + hosted Node service
(backend)
Simple, public, demo-ready URLs
Suggested monorepo layout:
veil/
├── apps/
│   ├── web/            # Next.js responsive website
│   └── agent/          # Node.js autonomous agent runner
├── packages/
│   ├── x402-client/    # x402 client/payment helpers
│   ├── capability/     # capability validation/business logic
│   ├── algorand/       # Algorand client + typed app client
│   └── shared/         # shared types/constants
├── contracts/
│   └── veil-capability/  # Algorand TypeScript smart contract
├── database/
│   └── schema/         # SQL migrations
├── scripts/
│   ├── seed-demo.ts
│   └── test-e2e.ts
└── .env.example
If the team is faster with a single Next.js project, collapse apps/ and packages/ into app/ + lib/ + contracts/ +
scripts/ . Prioritize speed and clarity over structural completeness.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 30 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
26 Demo Script
Three visible panes: the AI agent on one side, the Veil dashboard in the center, and an Algorand
explorer (Lora or Pera Explorer, TestNet) on the other — pointed at the capability app's box storage
and the treasury account.
Time
Beat
0:00–0:30
Problem. AI agents increasingly need to buy access to APIs and data, but permanent API keys grant
too much long-lived, unscoped access.
0:30–1:00
Request. User asks the agent to complete a task requiring a paid resource (e.g., "find the cheapest
supplier" / "get premium market data").
1:00–1:45
402 → payment. Agent calls the endpoint, receives 402 , reads the price, and pays autonomously
through x402.
1:45–2:30
Algorand + capability. The atomic transaction group appears live in the explorer; the dashboard
shows an active capability with resource, action, quota, and expiry.
2:30–3:15
Access. Agent signs the nonce, retries, gets 200 OK , and the LLM summarizes the returned data.
3:15–4:00
Security. Admin clicks REVOKE; the explorer updates live (badge clawed back or the box's revoked
flag flips); the agent retries the identical request and gets 403 Forbidden — no restart, no fresh
credential, no cuts.
4:00–5:00
Why it matters. Payment becomes authorization: temporary, scoped, quota-limited, and revocable
— closing with the positioning line from Section 22.
BONUS, TIME PERMITTING
Run the same credential against a WRITE endpoint immediately after the successful READ access, and show
the 403 from scope mismatch, against a second agent — this makes "least privilege, not just access/no-
access" concrete in about ten seconds of screen time, without needing a second demo setup. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 31 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
27 Architecture Decisions & Tradeoffs
Where the two source designs genuinely differed, this section names the decision explicitly rather than
silently picking a side.
Point of divergence
Resolution taken
ASA-per-grant as the
primary capability
mechanism
Rejected as the source of truth. The capability record lives in box storage; the badge
ASA is retained only as an optional, demo-friendly visual artifact and can be cut entirely
under time pressure without weakening the security model.
Who funds the disposable
address
Resolved in favor of the security review: the issuer funds each disposable address from
its own reserve. Agent-funded disposable addresses were rejected because they defeat
the privacy rationale by design.
Where the payment-
validation authority lives
Resolved in favor of the security review: the consumed-payment check and capability
write live inside the application call, checked atomically against the payment — not
decided by an off-chain issuer service.
Custodial key handoff for
disposable addresses
Kept as a named, explicit MVP scoping choice (Section 12), not treated as one of the
"fake/mock" patterns to be eliminated (Section 21). The distinction: this is a disclosed
simplification of key custody, not a simulated payment or a fabricated credential.
Per-request on-chain quota
decrement
Deliberately cut from MVP scope in both source documents; kept cut here. Quota is
checked-and-cached by the resource server with periodic reconciliation.
Privacy claim strength
Resolved toward the more conservative, honestly-scoped language from the security
review: "reduces straightforward address correlation," never "anonymity" or
"unlinkability" without qualification.
Product framing
Both source documents agree Veil is not "an API with x402 payments." This document
keeps that framing central throughout, per Section 3.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 32 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
28 Final Definition of Done
The project is done for the hackathon when a judge can watch the following run, unattended, end to
end:
User states a goal requiring a paid resource
→ Agent discovers the resource and calls it
→ Server returns 402 Payment Required
→ Agent pays autonomously through x402 on Algorand TestNet
→ Payment settles and a capability is issued atomically
→ Dashboard shows an active capability with resource, action, quota, and expiry
→ Agent signs a nonce and retries → 200 OK, data returned and summarized
→ Admin revokes the capability
→ Agent retries the identical request → 403 Forbidden 
If that flow runs reliably against real TestNet infrastructure — no simulated payments, no fabricated credential
IDs, no localStorage-based authentication — the MVP is complete. Everything in the stretch list (Section 23) is
optional polish layered on top of a working, honest core.
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design. This document consolidates the original Veil product/agent architecture with the follow-up
Algorand security review into one implementation-ready design, per the merge instructions supplied for this revision. 
Veil — Architecture & Technical Design | Page 33 of 33

---PAGE BREAK---
